README.md, before:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# Extended Two-way Fixed Effects (ETWFE)

<!-- badges: start -->

[![R-CMD-check](https://github.com/grantmcdermott/etwfe/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/grantmcdermott/etwfe/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml)
<!-- badges: end -->

The goal of **etwfe** is to estimate extended two-way fixed effects *a
la* Wooldridge
([2021](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3906345),
[2022](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4183726)).
Briefly, Wooldridge proposes a set of saturated interaction effects to
overcome the potential bias problems of vanilla TWFE in
difference-in-differences designs. The Wooldridge solution is intuitive
and elegant, but rather tedious and error prone to code up manually. The
**etwfe** package aims to simplify the process by providing convenience
functions that do the work for you.

## Installation

You can install the development version of **etwfe** from
[GitHub](https://github.com/):

``` r
# install.packages("remotes")
remotes::install_github("grantmcdermott/etwfe")
```

## Quickstart example

A detailed walkthrough of the package is provided in the introductory
vignette. See `vignette("etwfe")`. Here’s a quickstart example to
demonstrate the basic syntax.

``` r
library(etwfe)

# install.packages("did")
data("mpdta", package = "did")
head(mpdta)
#>     year countyreal     lpop     lemp first.treat treat
#> 866 2003       8001 5.896761 8.461469        2007     1
#> 841 2004       8001 5.896761 8.336870        2007     1
#> 842 2005       8001 5.896761 8.340217        2007     1
#> 819 2006       8001 5.896761 8.378161        2007     1
#> 827 2007       8001 5.896761 8.487352        2007     1
#> 937 2003       8019 2.232377 4.997212        2007     1

# Estimate the model
mod =
  etwfe(
    fml  = lemp ~ lpop, # outcome ~ controls
    tvar = year,        # time variable
    gvar = first.treat, # group variable
    data = mpdta,       # dataset
    vcov = ~countyreal  # vcov adjustment (here: clustered)
    )
mod
#> OLS estimation, Dep. Var.: lemp
#> Observations: 2,500 
#> Fixed-effects: first.treat: 4,  year: 5
#> Varying slopes: lpop (first.treat: 4),  lpop (year: 5)
#> Standard-errors: Clustered (countyreal) 
#>                                               Estimate Std. Error   t value   Pr(>|t|)    
#> .Dtreat:first.treat::2004:year::2004         -0.021248   0.021728 -0.977890 3.2860e-01    
#> .Dtreat:first.treat::2004:year::2005         -0.081850   0.027375 -2.989963 2.9279e-03 ** 
#> .Dtreat:first.treat::2004:year::2006         -0.137870   0.030795 -4.477097 9.3851e-06 ***
#> .Dtreat:first.treat::2004:year::2007         -0.109539   0.032322 -3.389024 7.5694e-04 ***
#> .Dtreat:first.treat::2006:year::2006          0.002537   0.018883  0.134344 8.9318e-01    
#> .Dtreat:first.treat::2006:year::2007         -0.045093   0.021987 -2.050907 4.0798e-02 *  
#> .Dtreat:first.treat::2007:year::2007         -0.045955   0.017975 -2.556568 1.0866e-02 *  
#> .Dtreat:first.treat::2004:year::2004:lpop_dm  0.004628   0.017584  0.263184 7.9252e-01    
#> .Dtreat:first.treat::2004:year::2005:lpop_dm  0.025113   0.017904  1.402661 1.6134e-01    
#> .Dtreat:first.treat::2004:year::2006:lpop_dm  0.050735   0.021070  2.407884 1.6407e-02 *  
#> .Dtreat:first.treat::2004:year::2007:lpop_dm  0.011250   0.026617  0.422648 6.7273e-01    
#> .Dtreat:first.treat::2006:year::2006:lpop_dm  0.038935   0.016472  2.363731 1.8474e-02 *  
#> .Dtreat:first.treat::2006:year::2007:lpop_dm  0.038060   0.022477  1.693276 9.1027e-02 .  
#> .Dtreat:first.treat::2007:year::2007:lpop_dm -0.019835   0.016198 -1.224528 2.2133e-01    
#> ... 10 variables were removed because of collinearity (.Dtreat:first.treat::2006:year::2004, .Dtreat:first.treat::2006:year::2005 and 8 others [full set in $collin.var])
#> ---
#> Signif. codes:  0 '***' 0.001 '**' 0.01 '*' 0.05 '.' 0.1 ' ' 1
#> RMSE: 0.537131     Adj. R2: 0.87167 
#>                  Within R2: 8.449e-4

# Event-study treatment effects
emfx(mod, type = "event") |>
  summary()
#>      Term    Contrast event   Effect Std. Error z value   Pr(>|z|)    2.5 %   97.5 %
#> 1 .Dtreat mean(dY/dX)     0 -0.03321    0.01337  -2.484 0.01297951 -0.05941 -0.00701
#> 2 .Dtreat mean(dY/dX)     1 -0.05735    0.01715  -3.343 0.00082830 -0.09097 -0.02373
#> 3 .Dtreat mean(dY/dX)     2 -0.13787    0.03079  -4.477 7.5665e-06 -0.19823 -0.07751
#> 4 .Dtreat mean(dY/dX)     3 -0.10954    0.03232  -3.389 0.00070142 -0.17289 -0.04619
#> 
#> Model type:  etwfe 
#> Prediction type:  response
```

## Acknowledgements

- [Jeffrey Wooldridge](https://twitter.com/jmwooldridge) for the
  [theory](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3906345)
  [underlying](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4183726)
  ETWFE.
- [Laurent Bergé](https://twitter.com/lrberge)
  ([**fixest**](https://lrberge.github.io/fixest/)) and [Vincent
  Arel-Bundock](https://twitter.com/VincentAB)
  ([**marginaleffects**](https://vincentarelbundock.github.io/marginaleffects/))
  for maintaining the two wonderful R packages that do most of the heavy
  lifting under the hood here.
- [Fernando Rios-Avila](https://twitter.com/friosavila) for the
  [`JWDID`](https://ideas.repec.org/c/boc/bocode/s459114.html) Stata
  module, which has provided a welcome foil for unit testing and whose
  elegant design helped inform my own choices for this R equivalent.

Commit message:

Add CRAN badge and homepage info to README

README.md, after:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# Extended Two-way Fixed Effects (ETWFE)

<!-- badges: start -->

[![R-CMD-check](https://github.com/grantmcdermott/etwfe/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/grantmcdermott/etwfe/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml)
[![CRAN
status](https://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/etwfe)](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=etwfe)
<!-- badges: end -->

The goal of **etwfe** is to estimate extended two-way fixed effects *a
la* Wooldridge
([2021](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3906345),
[2022](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4183726)).
Briefly, Wooldridge proposes a set of saturated interaction effects to
overcome the potential bias problems of vanilla TWFE in
difference-in-differences designs. The Wooldridge solution is intuitive
and elegant, but rather tedious and error prone to code up manually. The
**etwfe** package aims to simplify the process by providing convenience
functions that do the work for you.

Documentation is available on the package
[homepage](https://grantmcdermott.com/etwfe/).

## Installation

You can install **etwfe** from CRAN.

``` r
install.packages("etwfe")
```

Or, you can grab the development version from GitHub.

``` r
# install.packages("remotes")
remotes::install_github("grantmcdermott/etwfe")
```

## Quickstart example

A detailed walkthrough of **etwfe** is provided in the introductory
vignette (available
[online](https://grantmcdermott.com/etwfe/articles/etwfe.html), or type
`vignette("etwfe")` in your R console). But here’s a quickstart example
to demonstrate the basic syntax.

``` r
library(etwfe)

# install.packages("did")
data("mpdta", package = "did")
head(mpdta)
#>     year countyreal     lpop     lemp first.treat treat
#> 866 2003       8001 5.896761 8.461469        2007     1
#> 841 2004       8001 5.896761 8.336870        2007     1
#> 842 2005       8001 5.896761 8.340217        2007     1
#> 819 2006       8001 5.896761 8.378161        2007     1
#> 827 2007       8001 5.896761 8.487352        2007     1
#> 937 2003       8019 2.232377 4.997212        2007     1

# Estimate the model
mod =
  etwfe(
    fml  = lemp ~ lpop, # outcome ~ controls
    tvar = year,        # time variable
    gvar = first.treat, # group variable
    data = mpdta,       # dataset
    vcov = ~countyreal  # vcov adjustment (here: clustered)
    )
mod
#> OLS estimation, Dep. Var.: lemp
#> Observations: 2,500 
#> Fixed-effects: first.treat: 4,  year: 5
#> Varying slopes: lpop (first.treat: 4),  lpop (year: 5)
#> Standard-errors: Clustered (countyreal) 
#>                                               Estimate Std. Error   t value   Pr(>|t|)    
#> .Dtreat:first.treat::2004:year::2004         -0.021248   0.021728 -0.977890 3.2860e-01    
#> .Dtreat:first.treat::2004:year::2005         -0.081850   0.027375 -2.989963 2.9279e-03 ** 
#> .Dtreat:first.treat::2004:year::2006         -0.137870   0.030795 -4.477097 9.3851e-06 ***
#> .Dtreat:first.treat::2004:year::2007         -0.109539   0.032322 -3.389024 7.5694e-04 ***
#> .Dtreat:first.treat::2006:year::2006          0.002537   0.018883  0.134344 8.9318e-01    
#> .Dtreat:first.treat::2006:year::2007         -0.045093   0.021987 -2.050907 4.0798e-02 *  
#> .Dtreat:first.treat::2007:year::2007         -0.045955   0.017975 -2.556568 1.0866e-02 *  
#> .Dtreat:first.treat::2004:year::2004:lpop_dm  0.004628   0.017584  0.263184 7.9252e-01    
#> .Dtreat:first.treat::2004:year::2005:lpop_dm  0.025113   0.017904  1.402661 1.6134e-01    
#> .Dtreat:first.treat::2004:year::2006:lpop_dm  0.050735   0.021070  2.407884 1.6407e-02 *  
#> .Dtreat:first.treat::2004:year::2007:lpop_dm  0.011250   0.026617  0.422648 6.7273e-01    
#> .Dtreat:first.treat::2006:year::2006:lpop_dm  0.038935   0.016472  2.363731 1.8474e-02 *  
#> .Dtreat:first.treat::2006:year::2007:lpop_dm  0.038060   0.022477  1.693276 9.1027e-02 .  
#> .Dtreat:first.treat::2007:year::2007:lpop_dm -0.019835   0.016198 -1.224528 2.2133e-01    
#> ... 10 variables were removed because of collinearity (.Dtreat:first.treat::2006:year::2004, .Dtreat:first.treat::2006:year::2005 and 8 others [full set in $collin.var])
#> ---
#> Signif. codes:  0 '***' 0.001 '**' 0.01 '*' 0.05 '.' 0.1 ' ' 1
#> RMSE: 0.537131     Adj. R2: 0.87167 
#>                  Within R2: 8.449e-4

# Event-study treatment effects
emfx(mod, type = "event") |>
  summary()
#>      Term    Contrast event   Effect Std. Error z value   Pr(>|z|)    2.5 %   97.5 %
#> 1 .Dtreat mean(dY/dX)     0 -0.03321    0.01337  -2.484 0.01297951 -0.05941 -0.00701
#> 2 .Dtreat mean(dY/dX)     1 -0.05735    0.01715  -3.343 0.00082830 -0.09097 -0.02373
#> 3 .Dtreat mean(dY/dX)     2 -0.13787    0.03079  -4.477 7.5665e-06 -0.19823 -0.07751
#> 4 .Dtreat mean(dY/dX)     3 -0.10954    0.03232  -3.389 0.00070142 -0.17289 -0.04619
#> 
#> Model type:  etwfe 
#> Prediction type:  response
```

## Acknowledgements

- [Jeffrey Wooldridge](https://twitter.com/jmwooldridge) for the
  [theory](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3906345)
  [underlying](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4183726)
  ETWFE.
- [Laurent Bergé](https://twitter.com/lrberge)
  ([**fixest**](https://lrberge.github.io/fixest/)) and [Vincent
  Arel-Bundock](https://twitter.com/VincentAB)
  ([**marginaleffects**](https://vincentarelbundock.github.io/marginaleffects/))
  for maintaining the two wonderful R packages that do most of the heavy
  lifting under the hood here.
- [Fernando Rios-Avila](https://twitter.com/friosavila) for the
  [`JWDID`](https://ideas.repec.org/c/boc/bocode/s459114.html) Stata
  module, which has provided a welcome foil for unit testing and whose
  elegant design helped inform my own choices for this R equivalent.
